Skip to main content
Carbon Design System
Search



Icons
Library
Usage
Code
Icons are visual symbols used to represent ideas, objects, or actions. They communicate messages at a glance, afford interactivity, and draw attention to important information.

Resources
IBM Icons
Elements package: Icons
Elements package: Icons-React
Carbon Animated Icons Collection


Designing with icons
Sizing
Carbon components typically use icons on 16px artboards. Icons on 20px, 24px, and 32px artboards can also be used within the UI. Be sure icon size is consistent throughout your product.

icon sizingicon alignment
16px and 20px icons are optimized to feel balanced when paired with 14px and 16px IBM Plex. Use 24px and 32px when larger icons are needed.

proper sizing
Do use the correct icon size with IBM Plex.

improper sizing
Don’t alter the icon-text size ratio.

Touch targets
All touch targets for interactive icons need to be 44px or larger. Developers can add padding to a touch target with CSS to meet the 44px requirement.

touch target padding
A 22px icon centered in a 48px touch target.

Color
Icons are always a solid, monochromatic color and need to pass the same color contrast ratio as typography (4.5:1). The color of the icon should reflect the importance of the icon’s action which should always be to help guide a user. For more information on color, see the Color guidelines.

It’s also important to note that Carbon v10 icons themselves do not have interaction states, only their backgrounds do.

proper alignment
Do match your icon color with your text color when pairing them.

improper alignment
Don’t use different colors for text and icons.

Alignment
When used next to text, icons should be center-aligned.

proper alignment
Do center-align icons when they’re next to text.

improper alignment
Don’t baseline-align icons to the text.

Edit this page on GitHub
Previous
Icons: Library
Next
Icons: Code

Contact us
Privacy
Terms of use
Accessibility
IBM.com
Medium
Twitter
Have questions? Email us
at carbon@us.ibm.com
or open an issue on GitHub.

React Components version ^1.87.0-rc.0
Last updated 14 July 2025
Copyright © 2025 IBM

Navigated to Icons
Your privacy choices